1.Monk Patha.Foresti.Seek Out Takuanii.Meet Takuan at the Temple1.Takuan: Welcome to our Temple. We are a group of humble servants. 2.Takuan: Our lives are peaceful and quiet. We aim to help the public by any means we can and ask for little in return. 3.Takuan: If you would like to join us, we are always lookingfor more men to don the robes. 4.Choice: Join the Monks or Pass for Now.iii.Train as a Monk (1, i., 4. Join the Monks)1.Pickup lines for the monksa.Have you ever just listened to nature? It can tell us so much with no words.b.My morning prayers to the temple statues felt particularly uplifting this morning. c.I took some vegetables to a family in need. They seemed very appreciative.d.I expected this lifestyle to be boring, but I have never felt this calm.e.I had a nice tsukimairithis morning. f.Given their loss, the family I met with during their memorial seemed at peace. g.Have you sat outside, closed your eyes and visualized your breath like the wind around you?iv.News of Upcoming Peasant Revolt1.Takuan: I have a request to make unto you. 2.Takuan: I’m sure you have heard of the rumors coming from the village of a potential uprising? 3.Takuan: I know you just arrived here, but we must ensure no blood is spilled in this revolt.4.Takuan: Please meet with Sakitchi Mitunari in the clearingon the other side of the forest. He will have more information. 5.Takuan: Make the monastery proud and prevent violence as much as you can.  v.Meet Sakichi Mitsunari in Hidden Clearingvi.Learn of the Plot to usurp the Daimyo1.Sakichi: Thank you for meeting with me. I find it easier to speak with members of the Temple about these issues. 2.Sakichi: I have found out that my brother, Shigie, is plotting an event that will lead to unnecessary bloodshed.3.Sakichi: I need to find a way to prevent the plan from happening, but I cannot get too close to Shigie for fear he would recognize me. 
4.Sakichi: As a member of the Temple, could you assist me in your duty to prevent harm?5.Player: Leave it to me or I will think about it.6.Sakichi: Thank you. Please talk it over with Takuan, he may help provide ideas. 7.Our people have been pushed down for far too long. 8.Sakitchi: Shigie’s advice to the Daimyo is unnatural. It does not feed to the needs of our people. 9.Sakitchi: We must take back what is rightfully ours. The village will rest in our hands. 10.Sakitchi: I look to you, ronin’s of the village – we will show the Daimyo how much of a threat we are.  11.Mitsunari: Come, follow me. We will take back what is rightfully ours! To arms!12.Player: I must find a way to get into the Stronghold without violence. vii.Pick up lines for angry peasants1.I will follow Mitsunari to the death! 2.Shigie doesn’t listen to us. At least Mitsunari knows what we need. 3.The price of rice has tripled in two months. We can’t afford to eat anymore! 4.I don’t want to be away from my family, but if I follow Mitsunari, I know they will have a future. viii.Plot to Peacefully Resolve the Conflict 1.Takuan: Thank you for returning. What have you discovered?2.Player: Shigie is planning an attack or Sakichi would like our help.3.Takuan: The way I see it, the members of the Temple are respected everywhere. If you’d like a bit more bombastic of an approach, you may be able to enter wearing Stronghold armor, or maybe a different method of your own choosing. 4.Takuan: We must do what we can to preserve the peace. Iwill let you take care of it as you see fit. 5.Takuan: Good luck. Report back if you have issues.b.Strongholdi.Arriving at the Stronghold1.‘Disguise’ as a monka.Guard: The Daimyo has permitted entry to those of the Temple. b.Guard: Just cause no trouble or there will be consequences. 2.Disguise as a beggara.Guard: The Daimyo has permitted entry to the poorand those in need. You may enter. 
b.Guard: Just cause no trouble or there will be consequences. 3.Use the key to the old tunnela.No text, I’m assuming this action just happens.4.Something elsea.Guard: You are not allowed here. Only members of the Stronghold or those in need are allowed to enter. ii.Emerging in Monk Robes1.Are confronted by Shigiea.Shigie: Hold monk. What is a member of the Temple doing here? State your business. 2.Tell Shigie You’re here on official temple businessa.Player: I’m here on official Temple business or I must speak to the Daimyo b.Shigie: Fine. But be quick about it. I will have my eye on you. The Daimyo is a busy man. 3.Move to tell Daimyo about usurper plota.Player (to Daimyo): I have a message from the Temple or May I speak with you in Private?i.I have a message from the Temple1.Daimyo: Feel free to speak to me about it.ii.May I speak with you in Private?1.Daimyo: What you say to me can be said in front of my advisor.b.Player: I have learned of a threat or I believe there has been a misunderstanding.i.I have learned of a threat1.Daimyo: A threat? What do you mean?2.Shigie: Yes, speak up. 3.Player: I’m afraid your advisor is lying. Or You must not trust someone close to you.4.Daimyo: What do you mean?5.Player: As a member of the temple, I must tell you that Shigie is plotting to overthrow you. 6.Shigie: That is absurd! I would never do that! 7.Daimyo: That is a heavy accusation, what do you have to back it up? 8.Player: The Murder or A hunch froma Sourcea.The Murder is only available if you have the conditions met for 
Combined paths with Ronin then go there (2nd document)b.A hunch from a Sourcei.Daimyo: A hunch? You’re saying I must not trust my advisor based on a hunch?ii.Shigie: Who was this source?iii.Player: I can’t say or I won’t say. iv.Daimyo: If you cannot disclose your source, we must send you away. Samurai, come retrieve this intruder. c.Shigie Counsels the Daimyo to use forcei.(as player is being led away) Shigie: Sir, are youready to go into the village?d.Daimyo Sends troops to the villagei.Daimyo: If that is the onlyway to maintain the peace, then so be it. Send in the samurai. We must demonstrate who is in charge.ii.Go to Destroyed Village (1. C. 2. Destroyed Village)ii.I believe there has been a misunderstanding.1.Daimyo: A misunderstanding? How so?2.Shigie: Yes, speak up, what misunderstanding?3.Player: If you do not speak with Shigenari and the village Elder. If not, there may be unnecessary bloodshed. 4.Daimyo: I have been feeling unnecessary tension. iii.Shigie Counsels the Daimyo to use force1.Shigie: I must advise you that that is not wise. We must prove that we are the formidable force and we can 
handle any problem they pose us. A flex of our strength is in order. 2.Player: Do not insight violence or There must be a way to talk this out. 3.Daimyo: We have given them plenty ofchances to come to us, now we must go to them. 4.Daimyo: Samurai, send this intruder away. iv.Daimyo Sends troops to the village1.Daimyo: If this is the only way to maintain the peace, then so be it. Send in the samurai. We must demonstrate who is in charge.a.Go to Destroyed Village (1. C. 2. Destroyed Village)iii.Emerging in Daimyo Armor1.Are confronted by Shigiea.Shigie: Samurai hold. I do not recognize you. State your business. 2.Tell Shigie You’re here on official temple businessa.Player: I have a message for the Daimyo or I come with a warning.b.Shigie: Fine. But be quick about it. I will have my eye on you.3.Move to tell Daimyo about usurper plota.Player (to Daimyo): I have a message or May I speak with you in Private?i.I have a message 1.Daimyo: Feel free to speak to me about it.ii.May I speak with you in Private?1.Daimyo: What you say to me can be said in front of my advisor.b.Player: There are rumors of a threat to your life. Or There has been a misunderstanding.i. There are rumors of a threat to your life.1.Daimyo: A threat to me? There is always a threat to me. I hold the power that people covet.2.Shigie: Tell us more information or we will send you away. 3.Player: I know who murdered Mitsu. Or Shigie is lying to you. a.I know who murdered Mitsu.
i.Shigie: That is absurd! ii.Daimyo: I agree. That is arather strong claim, who do you think that is?iii.(jump to 2nd document page 1)b.Shigie is lying to you. i.Shigie: A waste of time. Take him away, he is of no use to us. ii.Daimyo: I must agree, you come into our Stronghold throwing around accusations with no real information, I’m afraid we must send you away.iii.Player: No wait! Or I know who murdered Mitsu!iv.No wait! (jump to 4, i)v.I know who murdered Mitsu! (go back to 3, a.)ii.Shigie Counsels the Daimyo to use forcei.(as player is being led away) Shigie: Sir, are youready to go into the village?iii.Daimyo Sends troops to the villagei.Daimyo: If that is the onlyway to maintain the peace, then so be it. Send in the samurai. We must demonstrate who is in charge.ii.Go to Destroyed Village (1. C. 2. Destroyed Village)iv.There has been a misunderstanding.1.Daimyo: A misunderstanding? How so?2.Shigie: Tell us more information or we will send you away. 3.Player: You’re being pushed to fight. Or The village elder and Sakichi want to talk. a.You’re being pushed to fight.
i.Daimyo: Oh? By whom?ii.(go to 2nd document for Combined paths with Ronin)b.The village elder and Sakichiwant to talk. i.Shigie: They have had their chances to talk. The moment of action is now. ii.Daimyo: He is right, we have given them plenty of chances to come to us,now we must go to them.iii.Daimyo: Send this intruder away. c.Shigie Counsels the Daimyo to use forcei.(as player is being led away) Shigie: Sir, are youready to go into the village?d.Daimyo Sends troops to the villagei.Daimyo: If that is the onlyway to maintain the peace, then so be it. Send in the samurai. We must demonstrate who is in charge.ii.Go to Destroyed Village (1. C. 2. Destroyed Village)4.Shigie Counsels the Daimyo to use forcea.Daimyo: If what you’re saying is true. We need to act swiftly for fear lives will be unnecessarily lost.  b.Daimyo: Is that all you have to tell us? c.Player: Yes. (continue down) Or No, there is one more.(go to 2nd document for Combined paths with Ronin)d.Shigie: Are we authorized to mobilize the samurai? 5.Daimyo Sends troops to the villagea.Daimyo: Yes. Tell them to start their movement now. b.Daimyo: And you – beggar/samurai impersonator – if that is everything, you come with me. If this is a false report, your execution will be swift. 
c.Player: Yes, that is all. (continue flow) Or One more thing.(go to 2nd document 3., a: Gain Daimyos Trust)6.Go to Destroyed Village (1. C. 2. Destroyed Village)c.Villagei.Peaceful Village1.Meet the Daimyo party at the village2.The daimyo lays a sakura blossom behind the murder mystery housea.(after the blossom has been laid)b.Daimyo: There has been much sadness and turmoilin this village as of late. c.Daimyo: I will do everything I can to help out whereis necessary. d.Daimyo: Even if we may not agree, I would like to extend my respect for my friends and my enemies. e.Daimyo: We all want what is best for ourselves and our community. Perhaps this is a day we can start working together.  3.Musashi remains at his locations shows respect for the Daimyo4.Musashi hails Sasaki, tells him he looks forward to their upcoming duela.Musashi: I accept your words of future collaboration, but some words cannot be taken back. b.Musashi: Sasaki, I will still see you for our upcomingduel. 5.Sasaki Respondsa.If Shigie confronted. i.Sasaki: Understood. Now, if you excuse me, Imust speak to the Daimyo.b.If Shigie not confronted. i.Sasaki: Understood. I had expected nothing less. ii.Shigie: I must talk to you in private. c.Takuan recites a poem, give you rakusoi.Here is the poem I’ve pulled, if you don’t like it, feel free to change it.ii.There is a saying, “Sever the edge between before and after.” Not ridding the mind of previous moments, allowing traces of the present mind to remain – both are bad. This means one should cut right through the interval between previous and present. Its significance is in cutting off the edge 
between before and after, between now and then. It means not detaining the mind. d.Your father tells you he’s proud you’d decided to commit your life to monkhoodi.Father: Son, ... I must say. I had my doubts when you decided this was your path. ii.Father: Looking back, I was wrong. You have grown up to be an honorable man. iii.Father: I could not be more proud of you or the work you are doing. You bring great prideto our name. iv.Player: Thank you. Or I could not have done it without you.e.You are now free to walk around the town and talk to the other characters speaking to the Musashi again will progress to the epiloguei.If Shigie confronted1.You are able to approach the Daimyo and Shigenari talking with Shiegie tiedup or captured.a.Shigenari: I will beg of you to release him. b.Daimyo: I cannot in good consciousness release a murderer this close to me among my people. c.Sasaki: On my family’s honor, we will flee and you will never hear form us again. d.Daimyo: I do not wish to speak of it anymore. He is a murderer to our people. He is not welcomed here. ii.If Shiegie not confronted1.Brother’s conversationa.Shiegie: I will obtain the Daimyotitle. I’ll do what I can. b.Sakichi: Why must you always resort to conflict? Let the world be as the world will be.c.Shiegie: The world needs changing and it will only changeby those demanding it.d.Shigenari: There are better ways to go about change than attacking the snake directly. 
e.Sakichi: Or we could not do violence at all. f.Shiegie: Perhaps you can show me how, Shigenari.2.Daimyo a.Daimyo: I am in your personal debt. Had it not been for your actions, we would be in a different situation. b.Daimyo: I will repay the debt someday.c.Daimyo: For now, let us enjoy the peace in the village. I don’t believe it will be around for long.  iii.Villagers1.I’m glad nothing bad happened. I was feeling tension in the air.2.Did something happen? I must’ve missed it while in the fields.3.The blossom they placed really complimented the poem they read. 4.I always wanted to be a samurai. It beats being a farmer. iv.Musashi1.Progress this to the Epilogueii.Destroyed Village1.Go with the Daimyo to the village2.The Daimyo reviews the scene at the village and comments on your father’s death. a.Daimyo: I may have errored and rushed my decision to attack.b.Daimyo: This was an unnecessary loss of life. I believe our differences should have been resolved by talking rather than conflict. c.Daimyo: ... d.Daimyo: Is that your father? I too have lost close family to conflict. I will mourn him as well.e.Daimyo: This is my fault.3.Musashi stands among the slain Mori samurai4.Sasaki outraged, confronts Musashia.Sasaki: We shall have you killed for the murder of samurai!b.Sasaki: They were doing their job of maintaining peace!5.Musashi tells sasaki they were bothering him, and reminds them they have a duel coming up
a.Musashi: They were threatening this town. I did what I needed to do. b.Musashi: Do not speak to me anymore. We will settle this in our duel shortly. 6.The daimyo sees the grief of the town, the bloodshed and realizes his mistakea.Daimyo: ... This was my fault. I should have been more of a leader. b.Daimyo: I have been too blind to the pain of the citizens I am to protect. c.Daimyo: Musashi, while I do not agree with what you did, I understand that you - 7.Shigie moves to kill the Daimyo and seize powera.Shigie: No! Do not forgive him! He is a danger to our rule! He needs to be finished! b.Daimyo: Arrest him!c.Shigie: I will make it my life’s work to obtain the Daimyo status! Mark my words! 8.Shigenari and Sakichi confront Shigie restraining him and asking the Daimyo to be merciful with hima.Daimyo: Send him away! I will see to it that I kill him myself!b.Shigenari: You excellency, you can’t do that! c.Sakichi: Please, have mercy on him. d.Shigenari: We can take him and we will flee from here. You will never see us again. e.Sakichi: Yes, yes, we can run from here, just don’t kill him.9.Shigie is dismissed from service but lives, shigenari is taken into service, the daimyo thanks youa.Daimyo: I shall broker a deal. I will dismiss Shigie and banish him from my land... but -  b.Daimyo: Shingenari, you are to report into my service. 10.the daimyo thanks youa.Daimyo: Thank you, PLAYER I would not have been able to do this without you. 11.You are now free to walk around the town and talk to the other characters speaking to the Musashi again will progress to the epiloguea.Daimyo: i.Daimyo: I do apologize for your father and the other lives that are lost.b.Shingenarii.Shingenari: I did not expect to surrender myself to the Daimyo for the sake of my brother’s freedom. 
c.Villagersi.I was so terrified! I ran into the house and hid. ii.I’m sorry for your father. He was a wonderful man. iii.I have no fear when Musashi was here. He protected us. iv.Did you see Musashi fight? It is indescribable how fluid his movements are.v.No! Elder! Why did you have to go! vi.I have more faith in Musashi than I do the Daimyo’s samurai, but don’t tell anyone. d.Father’s bodyi.Player: I’m sorry, Father. I tried to be honorable. I did what I could to stop this. ii.Player: But it didn’t seem like enough. iii.Player: I will continue my role as a monk and try to dedicate my life to non-violence. iv.Player: I hope I do you proud. e.Musashi: Advance to Epilogued.Epiloguei.Musashi will ask you to attend in case he loses so the monks canmake sure his body is handled1.Musashi: I must request I have a monk in attendance for this duel. 2.Musashi: ... In case something happens, I want to ensure my body is handled with respect. 3.Musashi: If you are ready, we can go.ii.You go to the island with Takuaniii.If you have the paddle you can row Musashi to the island1.If you have the paddlea.Musashi: May I take that oar from you?b.Player: Of course or Yes, but why?c.Musashi: Thank you. I have found that wood has never failed me. Swords have a tendency to break. d.Musashi: Besides, swordplay tends to be less about swords and more about manipulating your opponent.2.If you don’t have the paddlea.Nothing, sit in silence. 2.Ending (all characters if alive)a.Daimyo speaks about the political nature of the dueli.Daimyo: Talk about political nature of the duel, I don’t know the nuances to be able to describe it.b.Sasaki and Musashi exchange insultsi.Sasaki: You’re very late. I did not know noon meant sundown.  
ii.Sasaki: What do you have there? A wooden sword? Do you reallythink you can defeat me with a wooden sword? iii.Musashi: I don’t need to lower myself to taunt with you, you seem perfectly capable of making a fool of yourself in front of your students. iv.Musashi: There can be only one great swordsman. I have retained it far too long to give it up now. v.Sasaki: Then let us begin. This will be over soon enough. c.Musashi and Sasaki fight, Musashi using the paddle. Sasaki loses and dies. Musashi flees on the boat leaving you behind. i.Daimyo: We have witnessed history being made in front of us. Their decisions led them here. ii.Daimyo: It was your decisions that led you to this place, at this time, on this day. iii.Daimyo: Your decisions will carry you the rest of your life. The stories you tell of today will be remembered until the end of time. d.End