Ronin PathSeek Sasaki in the forestMeet Sasaki in the hidden clearingoSasaki: You appear to be in search of a non-traditional means of a noble destiny.oSasaki: I help those seeking their own path in life, young or old, abled or disadvantaged. oSasaki: Come join us as a Ronin and see where your destiny may take you. oPlayer: Join the Ronins (train as a Ronin) or Maybe another time. Train as a RoninoFiller dialogue of Ronin samuraiI ran away from home in order to create my own destiny here.My sword skills are far beyond what I could’ve done training at home.I don’t like the way my village is being run, I choose to make my own path. I hope to be as strong as Musashi one day. He’s the ronin we all look to. I’ve served both samurai and bandits. I go wherever there is money and honor. News of upcoming peasant revoltoSasaki: PLAYER NAME, I have a request for you, our newest Ronin. oSasaki: There are rumors of disturbance and possible uprising in the village.oSasaki: I need you to speak with the Village Elder and learn more aboutit.oSasaki: This is a moment for you to learn the ways of the Ronin. We stand for those who cannot stand for themselves.oPlayer: Whatever the Ronin need. Or I will speak with him.oSasaki: Thank you.Village Elder petitions you to lead their causeoVillage Elder: You have chosen your own path I see. oVillage Elder: Must has changed since your last visit to the village. Our people are starving. Our taxes are too steep. Our citizens are growing impatient and frustrated.oVillage Elder: I am not advocating this, but I did hear of a gentleman – Shigenari – whom is...pushing for change. oVillage Elder: If you wish to be of service to us, please speak with him. oPlayer: I will speak with him. Or What do you want to happen? I will speak with himVillage Elder: Thank you. We are here if you need help. Please hurry.What do you want to happen?Village Elder: I would like as little violence as possible. 
Village Elder: But, I would like our voices heard.Village Elder: Thank you. We are here if you need help.oPlayer meets ShigenariShigenari: I heard word from the Elder that a Ronin may come tosee me. Shigenari: There is a disturbance among the working and lower classes. Shigenari: The elite of our society do not understand our plight, they do not listen to our commands. It is time for us to act. Shigenari: We need strong ronin to help us confront the samurai and take back what is ours. With Musashi on our side, we cannotlose. Shigenari: With the honor of the ronin, I humbly ask for your help.Player: I’ll do my part. Or Let me know how I can help.Shigenari: Thank you. I will need your help infiltrating the Stronghold and telling the Daimyo of our warning. Shigenari: I would go, but my brother, Shigie, is his right hand man. Shigenari: Simply put – go to the Stronghold and tell the Daimyothat the working class will be listened to or there will be consequences.You plot how to infiltrate the strongholdoDisguise as a Beggar (one arm)Emerge at front gateGuard: The Daimyo has permitted entry to the poor and those in need. You may enter. Guard: Just cause no trouble or there will be consequences. Are confronted by Shigie (as beggar)Shigie: Beggar, halt, what business do you have in the Stronghold.Tell Shigie you are a beggarPlayer: I have a message for the Daimyo. Or I come with a warning.oI have a message for the DaimyoShigie: You can tell me, I will pass the message along. The Daimyo is a busy man.Player: I can’t do that. Or I must tell him directly.Shigie: Fine. You can meet with him, but I willstand next to you. Do not try anything foolish.oI come with a warning
Shigie: Whatever the warning, you can tell his right hand man.Player: I can’t do that. Or I must tell him directly.Shigie: Fine. You can meet with him, but I willstand next to you. Do not try anything foolish.Move to talk to Daimyo Daimyo: What are you doing here? Player:o(if Sake) There is a message I must say, but first, a drink? Daimyo: You come into my house, pushing yourself past my samurai, and you come offering me a drink? Daimyo: Actually, now that I see your cup, it reminds me of someone familiar.Shigie: Daimyo, I must not let you be distracted, we need to advance to the village.Daimyo: In a moment, I’m reminiscing of a man I served with while we were younger. This must be his cup and tokkuri. Shigie: Daimyo, we must proceed.Daimyo: You are right, we must proceed to the village. I must address this man myself and see how he has been. Daimyo: Thank you, PLAYER, for you have shown me to reconnect with my past to builda stronger future. Daimyo offers peacePeaceful Villageo(if blade) I have the evidence to denounce a murdererDaimyo:Evidence for a murder? Player: (present the blade)Daimyo: Could it be?Shigie: Daimyo, this isn’t what it looks like.Daimyo: Under my nose and as the assistant protector in this region, you’ve committed this heinous act?Shigie: I can explain. Daimyo: Arrest him. (Samurai move in to arrest him.)
Daimyo: Thank you for bringing this to my attention. I don’t need blame the citizens of the village anymore. Daimyo: Will you accompany us to the village so we may make amends? Peaceful Villageo(else) You mustn’t attack the villageMove to confront the Daimyo on peasants behalfDaimyo: You have come into my home, attacked my men, attacked my advisor – for what? Daimyo: Why are you here?Tell Daimyo of rebel demandsShigie counsels the Daimyo to use forceDaimyo sends troops to the village (you are a prisoner)Destroyed villageoDuel the guardsEmerge at the front gateGuard: Halt! Only what business does an armed ronin have at our gate?Player: Let us through or I must speak with the Daimyo.Guard: I cannot allow that. We have a duty to protect the Daimyo.Player: Attack or Retreat. oAttack Player kills the guards (if above combat 14), and enters StrongholdoRetreatPlayer must find a new way to enter (beggar route)Are confronted by Shigie Shigie: I heard the sounds of fighting what is going – who are you?Player: I’m here to speak with the Daimyo or I have amessage from ShigenarioI’m here to speak with the DaimyoShigie: You will do no such thing.Shigie: On my life, I will protect the Daimyo(duel Shigie, player wins, player moves to Daimyo)oI have a message from Shigenari
Shigie: My brother? What message could he have that kills the Daimyo’s men?  Player: I need to speak to the Daimyo or It is time for the lower class to fight back. I need to speak to the Daimyo.oShigie: You will do no such thing.oShigie: On my life, I will protect the Daimyoo(duel Shigie, player wins, playermoves to Daimyo)It is time for the lower class to fight back.oShigie: That is our say and our say alone. oShigie: Be gone with you, or there will be consequences.o (duel Shigie, player wins, player moves to Daimyo)Move to confront the Daimyo on peasants behalfDaimyo: You have come into my home, attacked my men,attacked my advisor – for what? Daimyo: Why are you here?Tell Daimyo of rebel demandsShigie counsels the Daimyo to use forceoElseDaimyo sends troops to the village (you are a prisoner)Destroyed villageoSomething else (not dressed as a beggar or in armor)Guard: You are not allowed here. Only members of the Stronghold or those in need are allowed to enter. Peaceful villageoMeet the Daimyo party as the villageoThe Daimyo lays a sakura blossom behind the murder mystery houseoIf Sake RouteDaimyo: There has been much sadness and turmoil in this village as of late. Daimyo: I will do everything I can to help out where it is necessary. Daimyo: Though we may not agree, I would like to extend my respect for my friends as well as my enemies. For friendship andunderstanding is how we truly begin to understand one another. Daimyo: Perhaps one this, maybe today, we can start working together. 
(Daimyo acknowledges player’s Father and Musashi) Musashi hails Sasaki tells him he looks forward to their upcoming duelMusashi: I accept your words of the futher, but some words cannot be taken back. Musashi: Sasaki, I will still see you for our upcoming duel. Sasaki respondsSasaki: Understood. I had expected nothing less. Musashi receites a poem, give you old Ronin armorI was having a hard time finding short poetry he could recite here.You’re free to walk about the town and talk to people, Musashi will progress storyFather: oSon... I must say, I am proud of you for the path you decided to walk. The way of a Ronin is challenging, but you are making it your own. I couldnot be more proud of you. oI could not be more proud of you and the name youbring to our family. oPlayer: Thank you. Or I could not have done it without you.Brothers:oShigenari: Brother, I am asking you again, please withdraw your plans. oShigie: No, the world needs changing. We must be the ones to do it. oSakichi: Shigenari is right, perhaps it is time to revisit your plans. oShigie: The Daimyo does not control the village as he should. If I were in charge, things would be different. oShigenari: Perhaps it is wise you aren’t in charge. Be advised, I will do everything in my power to stopyou. oShigie: You would stop your own brother from obtaining what can he his? oShigenari: To maintain peace in the village? I woulddo that in a heartbeat. Villagers:oThere was a tension in the air, but is it just me or has that subsided? oThe Daimyo’s blossom really complimented the poetry. oI always wanted to be a Ronin – living on the edge of society. Maybe that is my calling. 
oIt is nice to the Daimyo and Musashi respecting oneanother. I was afraid this would not be as peaceful. Elder: I am thankful we were able to avoid conflict. Thank you for your help in building the bridge of peace to us. Granddaughter: You came back! It sounds like you had quite the hand in avoiding any conflict. Perhaps if you are free later, we may be able to take a walk? Daimyo: Friendship is never something that can be overvalued. Thank you for showing me that path once again. Musashi: Are you ready to witness a fine piece of sword work in a duel?oTo EpilogueoIf Murder Capture RouteDaimyo: There has been much tension and panic in this village as of late. Daimyo: It has been brought to my attention the identity of the murderer and they have been captured. Daimyo: Behold, Shigie, arrested for the murder of WHO DIEDand for conspiring to overthrow the Daimyo.Daimyo: He will be punished to the fullest extent of our laws. Daimyo: But for now, it is a time of peace. We have found the snake in our gardens. The poison in our wells. Daimyo: I, as your Daimyo, will do everything I can to protect this village. As long as I am here, you will have nothing to be worried about. Daimyo: Though we may not agree, I would like to extend my respect for my friends as well as my enemies. For friendship andunderstanding is how we truly begin to understand one another. Daimyo: Perhaps one this, maybe today, we can start working together. (Daimyo acknowledges player’s Father and Musashi) Musashi hails Sasaki tells him he looks forward to their upcoming duelMusashi: I accept your words of the futher, but some words cannot be taken back. Musashi: Sasaki, I will still see you for our upcoming duel. Sasaki respondsSasaki: Understood. I had expected nothing less. Musashi receites a poem, give you old Ronin armorI was having a hard time finding short poetry he could recite here.Your Father tells you he’s proud of your decision to find your own destinyYou’re free to walk about the town and talk to people, Musashi will progress story
Father: oSon... I must say, I am proud of you for the path you decided to walk. The way of a Ronin is challenging, but you are making it your own. I couldnot be more proud of you. oI could not be more proud of you and the name youbring to our family. oPlayer: Thank you. Or I could not have done it without you.Brothers:oShigenari: Daimyo, we understand we are in no position to, but please show mercy for our brother.oSakichi: We understand he has done wrong. Perhaps we can flee the village and start life elsewhere. oDaimyo: Those who do crimes must be punished. oShigie: If you were in my position, sir, you would have done the same.  oDaimyo: You will have a chance to defend yourself, but now it not the time. oShigenari: We warned you this would happen, Shigie. oSakichi: As brothers, we will do what we can, but you must live with your consequences. Villagers:oThere was a tension in the air, but is it just me or has that subsided? oThe Daimyo’s blossom really complimented the poetry. oI always wanted to be a Ronin – living on the edge of society. Maybe that is my calling. oIt is nice to the Daimyo and Musashi respecting oneanother. I was afraid this would not be as peaceful. Elder: I am thankful we were able to avoid conflict. Thank you for your help in building the bridge of peace to us. Granddaughter: You came back! It sounds like you had quite the hand in avoiding any conflict. Perhaps if you are free later, we may be able to take a walk? Daimyo: Friendship is never something that can be overvalued. Thank you for showing me that path once again. Musashi: Are you ready to witness a fine piece of sword work in a duel?oTo EpilogueDestroyed VillageoGo with the Daimyo to the village as a prisoner
oThe Daimyo reviews the scene at the villageoDaimyo: I may have errored and rushed my decision. oDaimyo: So many unnecessary deaths. I believe our differences could hae been resolved by talking rather than conflict. oDaimyo: ... oDaimyo: (noticing player’s father) I knew this man. We were once friends. It is a shame it has come to this.oMusashi stands alone among many slain Mori samuraioSasaki, outrated, confronts MusashioMusashi tells Sasaki they were bothering him, and reminds them they have a duel coming up oThe Daimyo, seeing the grief of the town realized his mistakeoShigie moves to kill the Daimyo and seize powerShigie: You are a fool. You do not deserve to hold the power of the Daimyo.Shigie charges to the DaimyoPlayer: Intervene or Stay PutInterveneShigie: Who let PLAYER escape?Player: Your time is up or You will regret this.Player duels Shigie and kills/maims themDaimyo: Thank you. I was not expecting my advisor to turn against me. Daimyo: I am very appreciative of what you have done. Daimyo: Perhaps I was too quick in judging you earlier. You have my sincerest apologies. Daimyo: Could someone please remove this person from my sight? Daimyo: As for you, PLAYER, I would like to promote you to be in my guard as a Samurai. Player: Accept Promotion or Remain a RoninoAccept PromotionDaimyo: I hereby appoint you as a samurai of the Daimyo to serve and protect the village as well as my honor. oRemain a Ronin Daimyo: I understand. Daimyo: But if you ever change your mind, please let us know and we will welcome you with open arms for saving my life. You’re free to walk about the town and talk to people, Musashi will progress storyoPlayer to (deceased Father): I am sorry Father. I have tried to make our name respectable. I hope you would be satisfied with my choices.
oDaimyo: I cannot thank you enough for your help. Ifyou need anything, please let me know. oVillagersI’m sorry for your father, he was an honorable manI was so terrified! I ran into the house and hidMusashi was an amazing fighter, his movements were so fluid. oShigenari: (if Samurai) I see you have changed your allegiance, I hope it works well for you. (if Ronin) You have done well. I could not have asked for a better swordsmen to help the people.oSamurai (Daimyo’s guard): (if Samurai) Welcome to our brotherhood. By your appointment from the Daimyo, we will do all we can to protect you. We just ask you do the same for us. (if Ronin) We can treat you as an equal, but we are distinctly different in our purposes. You take care of your issues, we’ll take care of ours.oMusashi: Are you ready to witness a fine piece of sword work in a duel?To EpilogueStay Put(Shigie moves in and kills the Daimyo)Daimyo: Why – why have you done this?Shigie: You have misled us for so long, it was time for the power to changeDaimyo: You have brought dishonor to your family. (dies)Shigie: That means nothing coming from you. Shigie: It is time to eliminate the remaining parts of the old reign. The new Daimyo has just taken over. (turning to the player)Shigie: Do you not think I did not know what you were doing? Shigenari put you up to this. For that, you both willpay. Shigie: Sieze him. (player is captured)Shigie: You can meet your father now. I never liked him anyway. (Shigie kills the player, screen turns to black) GAME OVER, YOU DIED
oThrough your own choices, your story has ended. The decisions you made helped shape the world around you, yet the world continues on...oReturn to main menuEpilogueoIf you have the paddle, you can row Musashi to the islandMusashi will ask for the oar when you get to the islandMusashi: May I take that oar from you?Player: Of course or Yes, but why?Musashi: Thank you. I have found that wood has never failed me. Swords have a tendency to break. Musashi: Besides, swordplay tends to be less about swords and more about manipulating your opponent.oElseYou arrive at the island sitting in silenceoDaimyo speaks about the political nature of the duelDaimyo: Talk about political nature of the duel, I don’t know the nuances to be able to describe it.oSasaki and Musashi exchange insultsSasaki: You’re very late. I did not know noon meant sundown.  Sasaki: What do you have there? A wooden sword? Do you reallythink you can defeat me with a wooden sword? Musashi: I don’t need to lower myself to taunt with you, you seem perfectly capable of making a fool of yourself in front of your students. Musashi: There can be only one great swordsman. I have retained it far too long to give it up now. Sasaki: Then let us begin. This will be over soon enough. oMusashi and Sasaki fight, Musashi using the paddle. Sasaki loses and dies. Musashi flees on the board leaving you behindDaimyo: We have witnessed history being made in front of us. Their decisions led them here. Daimyo: It was your decisions that led you to this place, at this time, on this day. Daimyo: Your decisions will carry you the rest of your life. The stories you tell of today will be remembered until the end of time. oEnd