Samurai Path 
Plan to meet Sasaki in the Stronghold 
Travel to Stronghold along main path 
Passersby: 
Lovely weather for this time of year
I’ve heard the Daimyo is in a foul mood. Best stay away from the Stronghold. 
Off to the Stronghold? The life of a Samurai is one of righteous nobility.
There is a general unease in the air tonight, isn’t there?
Guards let you in (if weapon and 2 arms) 
Guard: Halt, stat your purpose. 
Player: I wish to become a Samurai or I wish to speak with the Daimyo 
Guard: Proceed. Do not cause a disturbance.
Meet Shigie Mitsunari who questions you 
Mitsunari: Off to waste your life pledging your services to a Daimyo who will not listen?
Sasaki interrupts him, and invites you to meet the Daimyo 
Sasaki: Let us not be so hasty. Let us see what they have to say. 
Sasaki: Greetings, I am Sasaki, a ranking samurai in the court of the Daimyo of Terumoto. To what do we owe the pleasure?
Player: I wish to become a Samurai or I am passing through.
I wish to become a Samurai 
Sasaki: (to Mitsunari ) See, Mitsunari? Some humble citizens wish to pledge to the Daimyo. 
Sasaki: (to player) Ah, well, we are looking for more men pledging their loyalty to the Diamyo. You appear in good physical condition. Tell me, why do you want to serve the Daimyo?
Player: To protect the community or To be a part of something bigger than myself.
Sasaki: A noble reason indeed. We would be willing you accept you, but first - do you pledge that you will always put the Daimyo first even if your life depends upon it? The life of the samurai requires unwavering loyalty.
Player: I do or I’m reconsidering. 
I do
Sasaki: Excellent. Let me introduce you to the Daimyo so you may pledge yourself to him.
(to  Meet Mori Terumoto (Daimyo) and are accepted into his service )
I’m reconsidering
Sasaki: The way of the samurai can not be taken lightly. Come back when you have grown a backbone (player is escorted out of the stronghold) 
I am passing through 
Sasaki: I am afraid at this time, we are not allowing tourism of the stronghold. We must ask that you leave. 
(player is escorted out of the stronghold)
Meet Mori Terumoto (Daimyo) and are accepted into his service 
Sasaki: Daimyo, I have a new recruit for you. 
Daimyo: It is good to meet you. I heard rumors of a possible samurai coming to meet me. 
Daimyo: Sasaki, has he taken his pledge? 
Sasaki: Yes he has. Undying, unyielding loyalty to you.
Daimyo: (to the player) Thank you. We are in much need of servicemen like yourself. We do mean well, but sometimes our service can run a little slim. We have much land to protect and I am but one person. 
Daimyo: We try our best and that is all we can ask. 
Daimyo: Now then, you will be serving me and if I give you a task, I mean for it to be done. 
Daimyo: Now, please work with Sasaki on your swordsmanship. Our samurai are well known for their craft. 
Train with Sasaki Kojiro 
Time passes, Combat score +10 
Player is free to explore the Stronghold until talking to Daimyo 
Samurai in stronghold
I can teach you this new move later. 
I am glad to be serving under such a firm leader.
I do miss going home, but I know I gave it up for a worthy cause.
Sasaki: You have made much progress since we started. You are a promising up and coming Samurai.
Daimyo: I have heard positive things about you, PLAYER , I have a request to make of you. 
Daimyo tells you of news of upcoming peasant revolt 
Daimyo: There are rumors of many peasants starting to plot and revolt against us. I need you to go to the Temple and speak with the leader to verify the validity of these claims. 
Player: You can count on me. Or Of Course. 
Daimyo: Thank you. Report back to me when it is finished. 
The Daimyo orders you to investigate the claims in the forest 
Travel to forest 
Passersby: (Farmers or Ronin)
Farmer: ... 
Farmer: I do not speak with Samurai.
Farmer: Down with the Daimyo!
Ronin: You must be ready.
Ronin: … Nothing nice to say, say nothing at all. 
Ronin: We pledge our loyalty to what is right. I wish you could say the same. 
Speak with Takuan Soho (leader of the temple)  
Soho: Greetings to our fine Temple, servant of the Daimyo. How can I assist you?
Player: What have you heard of the rebellion or Have there been any disturbances?
What have you heard of the rebellion?
Soho: I’m sorry, bringing such hostility to our Temple is no way to collect information. 
Player: My apologies or I demand you answer as a servant to the Daimyo. 
My apologies
Soho: Thank you. I have heard many unhappy people walk through my doors in search of guidance and help. 
Soho: It seems soon they will be taking matters into their own hands. 
Soho: If you wish to know more, please speak with Shigenari, in the clearing. 
(he does not come along)
I demand you answer as a servant to the Daimyo. 
Soho: I am under no obligation to serve to the Daimyo. 
Soho: I must ask that you leave this Temple. You are causing a disturbance. 
Soho: Speak with Shigenari in the clearing if you want more information. Good bye. 
(he does not come along)
Have there been any disturbances?
Soho: Yes, there have been many unhappy patrons walking through these doors. 
Soho: I believe several are looking for justice. 
Player: Do you know what they want? Or Are there threats being made?
Do you know what they want? 
Soho: Unfortunately, I do not. 
Soho: But - I do know who may know. 
Soho: His name is Shigenari, he congregates in the clearing hear here. I can point him out if you’d like. 
Player: Yes, please or No, I can find him. 
Yes, please
Soho: Then we best be off. 
(Soho joins)
No, I can find him. 
Soho: Understood. Samurai honor and that. I wish you luck on your quest.
Are there threats being made?
Soho: There are always threats being made. These however, seem a little more concrete. 
Soho: If you wish to find answers, please speak with Shigenari, he is a Ronin that resides in the clearing near here. I can introduce him if you’d like. 
Player: Yes, please or No, I can find him. 
Yes, please
Soho: Then we best be off. 
(Soho joins)
No, I can find him. 
Soho: Understood. Samurai honor and that. I wish you luck on your quest.
He tells you to speak with Shigenari (he asks if you want him to come along) 
Speak with Shigenari in the clearing
If Soho if with you
Shigenari: Who is there?
Soho: A friend and a guest. 
Shigenari: Soho, you know we are training and preparing, what do you need?
Soho: This Samurai would like to talk to you. 
Shigenari: I do not speak with Samurai. You will get what is coming soon enough. 
Soho: is this violence really necessary?
Shigenari: Ask them! They are the ones inflicting the pain against us. We must cleanse ourselves of them. 
Player: We mean no harm or How have we wronged you?
We mean no harm
Shigenari: That is easy for you to say. You’re not the one struggling. 
Shigenari: If Soho was not here, I would have dueled you. Now get out of my sight. Soho, do not bring Samurai around here again.
Shigenari: I would sleep with one eye open tonight.
How have we wronged you?
Shigenari: Are you really that blind that you cannot see the pain in your own community? 
Shigenari: Be gone. If Soho was not here, I would have dueled you. Now get out of my sight. Soho, do not bring Samurai around here again.
Shigenari: I would sleep with one eye open tonight.
If Soho not with you 
Shigenari: Who is there? A samurai? 
Shigenari: You are very brave to come into my territory by yourself. 
Player: Who says I’m alone? Or I’m here to talk.
Who says I’m alone? 
Shigenari: Samurai do not travel this way in a group. You had to be led here by some one. Was it Soho? I will have a word with him. 
Shigenari: What do you want? 
Player: I’m here to talk or You need to stop this. 
I’m here to talk
Shigenari: The time for talk is over. The Daimyo has had many chances to speak with and listen to the peasants. He has not. 
Shigenari: Now he sends a newly appointed samurai to do his bidding? How cowardice. 
Shigenari: Let’s see what this new samurai can do against the Ronin protecting the people. 
Shigenari: Come at me! 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
You need to stop this
Shigenari: I will not rest until our people can be heard. They have been pushed down and ignored for too long.
Shigenari: You and the Daimyo and my brother all in the Stronghold feasting while we starve. It has gone on too long. 
Shigenari: There is no point in holding back, duel me like the samurai you are. 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
I’m here to talk.
Shigenari: The time for talk is over. The Daimyo has had many chances to speak with and listen to the peasants. He has not. 
Shigenari: Now he sends a newly appointed samurai to do his bidding? How cowardice. 
Shigenari: Let’s see what this new samurai can do against the Ronin protecting the people. 
Shigenari: Come at me! 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
Report to the Daimyo 
Counsel War 
Shigie sides with you 
Daimyo chooses war 
Daimyo sends troops to village 
If Sake and cup 
Drink with the Daimyo, learn of his suspicions 
News comes the villagers have been subdued 
Destroyed village 
If bloody blade and bladeless tanto 
Confront shigie about murder 
Shigie is taken in custody 
Peaceful village  
Counsel peace 
Sasaki sides with you 
Daimyo chooses peace 
Shigie goes to subdue the village anyway 
If Sake bottle and cup 
Drink with Daimyo, learn of his suspicions 
News comes the villagers have been subdued 
Destroyed village 
Peaceful Village 
Meet the Daimyo party at the village 
The Daimyo lays a sakura blossom behind the murder mystery house 
Musahsi remains at his location, shows respect for the Daimyo 
Musashi hails Sasaki, tells him he looks forward to their upcoming duel 
Sasaki responds 
If player killed Shigenari, Sakichi says he’s going away since his whole family is gone 
Else – Shigenari and Sakichi entreat the Daimyo ot be merciful with Shigie 
Sasaki recites a poem, gives you sensei kimono 
Free to walk village 
Father tells you he’s proud of your service to the Daimyo 
Sasaki Kojiro – moves plot along 
Destroyed Village 
Go with the Daimyo to the village  
The Daimyo reviews the scene at the village, he comments to you about your father’s death 
Musashi stands alone among many slain Mori samurai 
Sasaki, outraged confronts Musashi 
Musashi tells Sasaki they were bothering him, reminds them they have a duel coming up 
Ignore Musashi 
Duel Musashi 
If two arms 
Lose arm 
If one arm 
Die 
The Daimyo sees the grief of the town, the bloodshed and realized his mistake 
Shigie moves to kill the Daimyo and seize power 
Save Daimyo 
You stop Shigie  
Shigie dies  
The Daimyo commends your loyalty and wishes to make right your father’s death 
Do nothing 
Sasaki saves the Daimyo  
You are scolded and told samurai require unwavering loyalty 
You are free to walk the village 
Sasaki Kojiro – moves plot along 
Epilogue 
Sasaki Kojiro will ask you to come with him as his witness to the duel 
You travel with the Daimyo and Sasaki to the duel 
Daimyo speaks of the political nature of the duel 
Sasaki and Musashi exchange insults 
Musashi and Sasaki fight, Musashi using the paddle.  
Sasaki loses and dies.  
Musashi flees on the boat leaving you behind  
End 
