Samurai Path 
Plan to meet Sasaki in the Stronghold 
Travel to Stronghold along main path 
Passersby: 
Lovely weather for this time of year
I’ve heard the Daimyo is in a foul mood. Best stay away from the Stronghold. 
Off to the Stronghold? The life of a Samurai is one of righteous nobility.
There is a general unease in the air tonight, isn’t there?
Guards let you in (if weapon and 2 arms) 
Guard: Halt, stat your purpose. 
Player: I wish to become a Samurai or I wish to speak with the Daimyo 
Guard: Proceed. Do not cause a disturbance.
Meet Shigie Mitsunari who questions you 
Mitsunari: Off to waste your life pledging your services to a Daimyo who will not listen?
Sasaki interrupts him, and invites you to meet the Daimyo 
Sasaki: Let us not be so hasty. Let us see what they have to say. 
Sasaki: Greetings, I am Sasaki, a ranking samurai in the court of the Daimyo of Terumoto. To what do we owe the pleasure?
Player: I wish to become a Samurai or I am passing through.
I wish to become a Samurai 
Sasaki: (to Mitsunari ) See, Mitsunari? Some humble citizens wish to pledge to the Daimyo. 
Sasaki: (to player) Ah, well, we are looking for more men pledging their loyalty to the Diamyo. You appear in good physical condition. Tell me, why do you want to serve the Daimyo?
Player: To protect the community or To be a part of something bigger than myself.
Sasaki: A noble reason indeed. We would be willing you accept you, but first - do you pledge that you will always put the Daimyo first even if your life depends upon it? The life of the samurai requires unwavering loyalty.
Player: I do or I’m reconsidering. 
I do
Sasaki: Excellent. Let me introduce you to the Daimyo so you may pledge yourself to him.
(to  Meet Mori Terumoto (Daimyo) and are accepted into his service )
I’m reconsidering
Sasaki: The way of the samurai can not be taken lightly. Come back when you have grown a backbone (player is escorted out of the stronghold) 
I am passing through 
Sasaki: I am afraid at this time, we are not allowing tourism of the stronghold. We must ask that you leave. 
(player is escorted out of the stronghold)
Meet Mori Terumoto (Daimyo) and are accepted into his service 
Sasaki: Daimyo, I have a new recruit for you. 
Daimyo: It is good to meet you. I heard rumors of a possible samurai coming to meet me. 
Daimyo: Sasaki, has he taken his pledge? 
Sasaki: Yes he has. Undying, unyielding loyalty to you.
Daimyo: (to the player) Thank you. We are in much need of servicemen like yourself. We do mean well, but sometimes our service can run a little slim. We have much land to protect and I am but one person. 
Daimyo: We try our best and that is all we can ask. 
Daimyo: Now then, you will be serving me and if I give you a task, I mean for it to be done. 
Daimyo: Now, please work with Sasaki on your swordsmanship. Our samurai are well known for their craft. 
Train with Sasaki Kojiro 
Time passes, Combat score +10 
Player is free to explore the Stronghold until talking to Daimyo 
Samurai in stronghold
I can teach you this new move later. 
I am glad to be serving under such a firm leader.
I do miss going home, but I know I gave it up for a worthy cause.
Sasaki: You have made much progress since we started. You are a promising up and coming Samurai.
Daimyo: I have heard positive things about you, PLAYER , I have a request to make of you. 
Daimyo tells you of news of upcoming peasant revolt 
Daimyo: There are rumors of many peasants starting to plot and revolt against us. I need you to go to the Temple and speak with the leader to verify the validity of these claims. 
Player: You can count on me. Or Of Course. 
Daimyo: Thank you. Report back to me when it is finished. 
The Daimyo orders you to investigate the claims in the forest 
Travel to forest 
Passersby: (Farmers or Ronin)
Farmer: ... 
Farmer: I do not speak with Samurai.
Farmer: Down with the Daimyo!
Ronin: You must be ready.
Ronin: … Nothing nice to say, say nothing at all. 
Ronin: We pledge our loyalty to what is right. I wish you could say the same. 
Speak with Takuan Soho (leader of the temple)  
Soho: Greetings to our fine Temple, servant of the Daimyo. How can I assist you?
Player: What have you heard of the rebellion or Have there been any disturbances?
What have you heard of the rebellion?
Soho: I’m sorry, bringing such hostility to our Temple is no way to collect information. 
Player: My apologies or I demand you answer as a servant to the Daimyo. 
My apologies
Soho: Thank you. I have heard many unhappy people walk through my doors in search of guidance and help. 
Soho: It seems soon they will be taking matters into their own hands. 
Soho: If you wish to know more, please speak with Shigenari, in the clearing. 
(he does not come along)
I demand you answer as a servant to the Daimyo. 
Soho: I am under no obligation to serve to the Daimyo. 
Soho: I must ask that you leave this Temple. You are causing a disturbance. 
Soho: Speak with Shigenari in the clearing if you want more information. Good bye. 
(he does not come along)
Have there been any disturbances?
Soho: Yes, there have been many unhappy patrons walking through these doors. 
Soho: I believe several are looking for justice. 
Player: Do you know what they want? Or Are there threats being made?
Do you know what they want? 
Soho: Unfortunately, I do not. 
Soho: But - I do know who may know. 
Soho: His name is Shigenari, he congregates in the clearing hear here. I can point him out if you’d like. 
Player: Yes, please or No, I can find him. 
Yes, please
Soho: Then we best be off. 
(Soho joins)
No, I can find him. 
Soho: Understood. Samurai honor and that. I wish you luck on your quest.
Are there threats being made?
Soho: There are always threats being made. These however, seem a little more concrete. 
Soho: If you wish to find answers, please speak with Shigenari, he is a Ronin that resides in the clearing near here. I can introduce him if you’d like. 
Player: Yes, please or No, I can find him. 
Yes, please
Soho: Then we best be off. 
(Soho joins)
No, I can find him. 
Soho: Understood. Samurai honor and that. I wish you luck on your quest.
He tells you to speak with Shigenari (he asks if you want him to come along) 
Speak with Shigenari in the clearing
If Soho if with you
Shigenari: Who is there?
Soho: A friend and a guest. 
Shigenari: Soho, you know we are training and preparing, what do you need?
Soho: This Samurai would like to talk to you. 
Shigenari: I do not speak with Samurai. You will get what is coming soon enough. 
Soho: is this violence really necessary?
Shigenari: Ask them! They are the ones inflicting the pain against us. We must cleanse ourselves of them. 
Player: We mean no harm or How have we wronged you?
We mean no harm
Shigenari: That is easy for you to say. You’re not the one struggling. 
Shigenari: If Soho was not here, I would have dueled you. Now get out of my sight. Soho, do not bring Samurai around here again.
Shigenari: I would sleep with one eye open tonight.
How have we wronged you?
Shigenari: Are you really that blind that you cannot see the pain in your own community? 
Shigenari: Be gone. If Soho was not here, I would have dueled you. Now get out of my sight. Soho, do not bring Samurai around here again.
Shigenari: I would sleep with one eye open tonight.
If Soho not with you 
Shigenari: Who is there? A samurai? 
Shigenari: You are very brave to come into my territory by yourself. 
Player: Who says I’m alone? Or I’m here to talk.
Who says I’m alone? 
Shigenari: Samurai do not travel this way in a group. You had to be led here by some one. Was it Soho? I will have a word with him. 
Shigenari: What do you want? 
Player: I’m here to talk or You need to stop this. 
I’m here to talk
Shigenari: The time for talk is over. The Daimyo has had many chances to speak with and listen to the peasants. He has not. 
Shigenari: Now he sends a newly appointed samurai to do his bidding? How cowardice. 
Shigenari: Let’s see what this new samurai can do against the Ronin protecting the people. 
Shigenari: Come at me! 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
You need to stop this
Shigenari: I will not rest until our people can be heard. They have been pushed down and ignored for too long.
Shigenari: You and the Daimyo and my brother all in the Stronghold feasting while we starve. It has gone on too long. 
Shigenari: There is no point in holding back, duel me like the samurai you are. 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
I’m here to talk.
Shigenari: The time for talk is over. The Daimyo has had many chances to speak with and listen to the peasants. He has not. 
Shigenari: Now he sends a newly appointed samurai to do his bidding? How cowardice. 
Shigenari: Let’s see what this new samurai can do against the Ronin protecting the people. 
Shigenari: Come at me! 
Player: Duel or Decline
Duel
If combat score > Shigenari
Shigenari: I concede. The rebellion will go on even if I cannot. Mark my words.
If combat score < Shigenari (you lose arm)
Shigenari: Let that be a lesson, we are here for our voices to be heard. Go back to your Daimyo and tell him to prepare for more than that. 
Decline
Shigenari: A coward? Fine. So be it for now, but we will have a duel. You better be ready. 
Shigenari: Go back to your Daimyo and tell him we mean business. The peasants will rise!
Report to the Daimyo 
Daimyo: What message do you have from Soho? 
Player: We must prepare for war or We must advocate for peace or I have an accusation
We must prepare for war 
Shigie: I must agree with PLAYER. The village is growing more defiant. The only way they will fall in line is with firm action.
Sasaki: I must disagree, the people need understanding an an open ear.  
Daimyo: I must agree with you. I cannot sleep well at night with the suspicion we will be ambushed at any point. 
Daimyo: Shigie, lead the troops into the village. 
Shigie: I am on it. 
Daimyo: (to the player) Anything else to report? 
Player: No, that is all or (if sake and cup) Let us have a drink 
No, that is all
Daimyo: ...All right, then we best follow Shigie. 
Destroyed village
Let us have a drink
Daimyo: (just the Daimyo and the player) That sake set looks familiar. I believe it belonged to an old friend of mine. 
Daimyo: Friends are an interesting thing. You can trust one with your life, yet never speak to them in years and they will still protect you. 
Daimyo: At the same time, you can have a friend, but not trust them at all, but you need to keep them close. 
Daimyo: … 
Daimyo: The one who had this sake set was the former. 
Daimyo: I’m afraid Shigie is more of the later. 
Daimyo: I have faith he will perform his task, but I have my suspicions of ulterior motives. 
Daimyo: We probably should go to the village. I prefer not leaving him too long alone. 
Destroyed village
We must advocate for peace
Sasaki: I must agree with PLAYER  the villagers want someone to listen to them. Their demands are reasonable. They just want someone on their side. 
Shigie: Daimyo, I must disagree with them, the peasants have been plotting against you for months. 
Shigie: If you walk out of here with your arms outstretched, they will take every opportunity to impale you with a sword to get what they want. 
Shigie: Listen to me, I’ve been there and listened to them, there is no reasoning with them. 
Daimyo: That is enough.
Daimyo: PLAYER, if you believe peace is the best course of action, then we will listen to them. There is no need for unnecessary blood spill if we can avoid it.  
Daimyo: Shigie, please make your way to the village, we will follow shortly. 
Daimyo: Now that we are alone, is there anything else you’d like to discuss with me? 
Player: Nothing or Would you like a drink? (if sake set)
 Nothing
Daimyo: … All right. Well, if there is nothing more, we should check in with Shigie. 
Would you like a drink?
Daimyo: (just the Daimyo and the player) That sake set looks familiar. I believe it belonged to an old friend of mine. 
Daimyo: I wonder what has become of him. It has been many years since we have connected. 
Daimyo: It is interesting how your life can drift down a path you did not intend. I did not expect to become the Daimyo, yet others continue to put their trust into me. 
Daimyo: Truthfully, I don’t reciprocate that same trust. 
Daimyo: There are many I keep close as friends that I would like as my enemies. 
Daimyo: You are different. You remind me strangely of that old friend that I can confide in. 
Daimyo: … 
Daimyo: Anyway, thank you for sharing with me. We best be off to meet with Shigie. I try not to leave him unattended for too long. 
Destroyed village
I have an accusation (If bloody blade and bladeless tanto )
Daimyo: That is a lofty claim. What do you have to share? 
Player: Your advisor is not to be trusted or Shigie, care to admit to your crime?  
Daimyo: What do you mean by that? 
Shigie: I agree, what do you mean?
Player: You killed DEAD PERSON or Here is the proof of murder
(I don’t entirely know how the player knows it was Shigie, could you please fill this part in?)
Daimyo: Samurai, arrest him. We don’t need this filth in our ranks. 
Daimyo: I must thank you, PLAYER, you have shown great character in bringing this to my attention. 
Daimyo: I believe with this knowledge, we will be able to calm the village down and discuss our differences. 
Daimyo: Let us head to the village.
Peaceful village
Peaceful Village 
Meet the Daimyo party at the village 
The Daimyo lays a sakura blossom behind the murder mystery house 
Daimyo: There has been much sadness and turmoil in this village as of late.
Daimyo: I will do everything I can to help out where it is necessary.
Daimyo: Though we may not agree, I would like to extend my respect for my friends as well as my enemies. For friendship and understanding is how we truly begin to understand one another.
Daimyo: Perhaps one this, maybe today, we can start working together.
(Daimyo acknowledges player’s Father and Musashi)
Musashi hails Sasaki tells him he looks forward to their upcoming duel
Musashi: I accept your words of the future, but some words cannot be taken back.
Musashi: Sasaki, I will still see you for our upcoming duel. Sasaki responds
Sasaki: Understood. I had expected nothing less.
Sasaki recites a poem, gives you sensei kimono 
I’m not finding any poetry from Sasaki. Everything I type comes up with Musashi
Free to walk village 
If player killed Shigenari
Sakichi (to Daimyo): Daimyo, I believe it is time for me to leave this village. With Shigenari and now Shigie gone, I have nothing left here. 
Daimyo: I agree with that statement. Perhaps the sooner you take your flight, the better. 
(Sakichi leaves the screen and cannot hold more conversation) 
If player did not kill Shigenari
Sakichi: Daimyo, sir, we must ask for your mercy. I’m sure it was out of defense. 
Shigenari: Agreed, we may not see eye to eye, but my brother is not a murderer. He deserves to be free. 
Sakichi: Allow us to take him. We can flee from here and you never see us again. 
Daimyo: That is enough. 
Daimyo: We have arrested him. He will have a chance to make a defense for himself, but I will not be releasing him at this time. 
Father 
Son, I must say, I could not be more proud of the path you have chosen. 
The way of the samurai under the leadership of the Daimyo is a noble cause. 
The Daimyo already filled me in on your invaluable assistance in keeping the peace in our village. 
Your name is an honor you have brought to this family. 
Player: Thank you or I could not have done it alone. 
Villagers: 
There was a tension in the air, but it seems to have subsided. 
The Daimyo’s blossom really complimented the poetry. 
I want to be a samurai when I grow up. I want to serve and protect our village. 
Seems like they will let anyone become a samurai these days. 
It is nice the Daimyo and Musashi are respecting one another. It was afraid this would not be a peaceful interaction. 
Toho: It seems all is right with the village. It is all thanks to you. 
Elder: I am thankful we were able to avoid conflict. Leave it to the samurai to find a way to achieve peace without bloodshet. 
Granddaughter: You came back! You clean up nice as a samurai. It feels like things will be getting back to normal soon. Perhaps if you are free later, we may be able to take a walk? 
Daimyo: My instinct to trust you was correct. You have been invaluable to keeping the peace in our community. My hope is that will continue for many years on. 
Sasaki Kojiro – PLAYER, I must ask, would you be willing to accompany me to my duel? I would like to have a friend by my side as my witness.  
Player: Yes or Not yet
Yes
To epilogue
Not yet (don’t move plot on yet)
Destroyed Village 
Go with the Daimyo to the village  
Daimyo: My instinct was correct. 
Daimyo: I have errored in rushing my decision. 
Daimyo: So many unnecessary deaths. I believe our differences could have been resolved by talking rather than by conflict. 
If player encouraged violence
Daimyo: I will remember your hastiness for conflict in the future. 
If player encouraged peace
Daimyo: I should have listened to you. Perhaps we could have avoided this. 
Daimyo: (noticing player’s father) I knew this man. We were once friends. It is a shame it has come to this. 
If player shared sake
Daimyo: Were you his son? 
Player: *nod* or Yes, sir
Daimyo: I am sorry. He was an honorable man. 
Musashi stands alone among many slain Mori samurai 
Sasaki: We shall have you killed for the murder of samurai! 
Sasaki: They were doing their job of maintaining peace! 
Musashi tells Sasaki they were bothering him, reminds them they have a duel coming up 
Musashi: They were threatening this town. I did what I needed to do. 
Musashi: Do not disrespect me, we will settle this with our duel shortly
Defend Sasaki’s honor or Do nothing
Defend Sasaki’s honor
Musashi: Are you challenging me to a duel? 
Musashi: This will not end well for you. 
If two arms 
Lose arm
If one arm
No arms (dead?) 
Do Nothing
Sasaki: Come along, we have other matters to attend to.
Sasaki: I will see you on the dueling grounds. 
The Daimyo sees the grief of the town, the bloodshed and realized his mistake 
Daimyo: … This was my fault. I should have been more of a leader.
Daimyo: I have been too blind to the pain of the citizens that I am to protect. 
Daimyo: Mustashi, while I do not agree with that you did, I understand that you - 
Shigie moves to kill the Daimyo and seize power 
Shigie: No! Do no forgive him! He is a traitor! He needs to be finished!
Shigie charges at the Daimyo 
Player: Save Daimyo or Do Nothing 
Save Daimyo 
(duel screen, Shigie dies)   
Daimyo: … 
Daimyo: Thank you. 
Daimyo: That is a great act of loyalty in such a short period of time. 
Daimyo: I can give you nothing but honor. Perhaps we may be able to create a memorial for your father and the others that were lost here as a token of my condolences to the town. 
Daimyo: In that, we may try to live together in peace and learn from the lessons of old. 
Player: Thank you. Or That would be an honor. 
Do nothing 
Sasaki: I will protect you, Daimyo! 
(duel screen, Shigie dies)
 Daimyo: …
Daimyo: … I was not expecting that of my advisor. 
Daimyo: Effective immediately, you are my personal advisor for your heroic protection. 
Sasaki: Thank you, Daimyo. 
Sasaki: (to the player) If you wish to be a samurai, you must show unwavering loyalty and self-sacrifice. Had I not been here, the Daimyo would have been killed due to your inaction. 
Sasaki: Consider this a warning going forward - you must protect the Daimyo. Understood? 
Player: Yes. or My apologies. 
You are free to walk the village 
Father’s grave: I am sorry Father. I have tried to make our name respectable. I hope you would be satisfied with my choices. 
Musashi: I have no words for you. 
Samurai (Daimyo’s guard): We have a duty to protect the Daimyo, even when that decision is a difficult one to follow sometimes. 
Villagers
I’m sorry for your father, he was an honorable man
I was so terrified! I ran into the house and hid.
Musashi was an amazing fighter, his movements were so fluid! 
I do not talk to samurai
The people, protected by the Ronin, will take back our land from you. 
Daimyo: 
If saved him: I cannot thank you enough for your help. If you need anything, please let me know. 
If Sasaki saved him: So many unnecessary lives were lost today… I hope our village can recover. 
Sasaki Kojiro – PLAYER, I must ask, would you be willing to accompany me to my duel? I would like to have a friend by my side as my witness.  
Player: Yes or Not yet
Yes
To epilogue
Not yet (don’t move plot on yet)
Epilogue 
You travel with the Daimyo and Sasaki to the duel
(while in travel)
Daimyo: It is not too late to back out of this. I’m sure a reconciliation could be reached. 
Sasaki: By this point, a reconciliation is beyond possible. We must determine which of us walks off of this island.
(reaching the beach)
Sasaki: He is not here yet. 
Sasaki: … 
Sasaki: This must be a mind game of his. 
Sasaki: It has to be. He knows we were to meet at noon so no one would be looking in the sun. 
(time passes)
Sasaki: There he is. What is he holding? 
Daimyo speaks of the political nature of the duel 
Daimyo: Talk about political nature of the duel, I don’t know the nuances to be able to describe it
Sasaki and Musashi exchange insults
Sasaki: You’re very late. I did not know noon meant sundown. 
Sasaki: What do you have there? A wooden sword? Do you really think you can defeat me with a wooden sword?
Musashi: I don’t need to lower myself to taunt with you, you seem perfectly capable of making a fool of yourself in front of your students.
Musashi: There can be only one great swordsman. I have retained it far too long to give it up now.
Sasaki: Then let us begin. This will be over soon enough.
Musashi and Sasaki fight, Musashi using the paddle. Sasaki loses and dies. Musashi flees on the board leaving you behind 
Daimyo: We have witnessed history being made in front of us. Their decisions led them here.
Daimyo: It was your decisions that led you to this place, at this time, on this day.
Daimyo: Your decisions will carry you the rest of your life. The stories you tell of today will be remembered until the end of time.
End
